<h2> Rationale </h2>

The main aim of this assignment was to build a website using JavaScript, APIs, and everything that we have basically learned in the past 2 years under Interaction Design, and thus in the first part of this assignment, I decided that I was going to build a weather and night sky website that would allow users to view the current weather conditions of any particular location or how the night sky on a particular day.  

Starting this assignment was a little tricky as it had a lot of components and it was overwhelming to think about what would make sense to me in the long run. After having a chat with my peers and the tutor I decided that it would be best to start off with basic HTML and CSS and mainly focus on JavaScript and getting my functions working the way I had intended to mainly because that was the most important part of the assignment. I had also discovered from the feedback of the previous assignment that my wireframe would not be very functional and thus would need some rethinking on what the website would eventually look like at the end. I also decided to give up on the night sky component and decided to focus solely on the weather components. With all these decisions in mind, I finally started working on my codes.    

The first problem that I faced was regarding the APIs which was an important part of this assignment. For this website, I had decided to use Open Weather API to retrieve all information regarding the current weather conditions of a particular location. In spite of having no errors in the JavaScript code, the function would just not work and an error would keep popping up in the console. Upon further research, I figured out that I might have accidentally been using the wrong API Key which was the only possible explanation at that point. I assumed fixing the API Key mistake would fix why my functions were not working but unfortunately, that did not help at all. Frustrated with not being able to figure out what was happening, I started reading more and more Open Weather and their FAQs to see if there were any solutions and this is when I stumbled upon a free service offered to students. Upon consulting with my tutor, I decided to subscribe to that hoping it would finally work and while the API Key took almost 72 hours to get activated, it finally worked which meant that my functions finally worked. 

The next roadblock was even though my functions worked perfectly in terms of what I had envisioned, the API would only react properly to the United States zipcode and would keep saying error if anything else was entered. This was very weird and confusing because, at the start of this unit, I was shown an example where Open Weather would return back the weather conditions for a city in ACT based on the coordinates, which meant that it worked. This issue took me almost another week to figure out what was going wrong. I had also changed the codes to say "postcode" instead of "zip code" hoping that would fix the issue but sadly that did not do the trick. Having exhausted every possible solution, I went back to class and discussed this issue with my tutor who was then very kind enough to tell me that I might need to include a Geocoding function which could fix my problems. 

Before I could include a geocoding function in my code, I had to read about it to figure out what it was and what it does in order to understand how I could use it. Once I was able to understand how geocoding works, I wrote in a function to try and fix my issue and this is where I came across my final hurdle. In spite of the function working properly without any errors popping up in the console, I still was not able to see anything happening on the screen. I was confused, stressed, and overwhelmed at this point and was desperate to get my codes working and to produce something meaningful. Not knowing what to do next, I reached out to ChatGPT and asked it to check my codes and tell me why they were not working and this is when I figured out that this error could be because Open Weather may not have a fully functional Geocoding API yet. Confused with what I was supposed to do next I looked up for free geocoding APIs and hoped and prayed that this would fix my codes. After a quick research, I came across Nominatim OpenStreetMap  API that offered API Keys for free. I picked up the geocoding link from there and was extremely happy to see that this finally fixed my issue and now I could retrieve current weather conditions using Australian postcodes or city names. Having that finally fixed I then moved on to stylising the websites

I have really been into the Glassmorphism design style lately and thought this would fit perfectly with my theme. I looked up various ways to build it on CSS and came across a website called Glass CSS where I could design how I wanted the shape/container to look and it would give me the corresponding CSS codes. This was really helpful and in some ways, it also helped me understand how glassmorphism works and what CSS elements played an important part in it. Happy with how that looked I then moved on to the fonts and the background and decided to go with a linear gradient. While looking up the syntax to achieve a gradient, I came across a website called ColorSpace where you could build your own gradient and it gives you the CSS codes for you to use. Coming across these websites was very helpful as not only do they make stylizing the website a little easier but also help with understanding and educating in what is happening and what CSS elements are at play. Finally being a little ambitious I also decided to add a final function that would change the background color based on the weather temperatures but sadly this acted up and refused to work no matter what changes I made and thus had to be left out due to not having enough time to work on it and fix it. 

Overall I had a lot of fun working on this assignment and learned a lot of new cool things in the process that I can not wait to actually put into practice. I definitely feel like I could have done a better job in certain areas had I had a bit more time and better time management skills, but nevertheless I am quite happy with my end results and will probably continue working on this as a personal project so see what more I can do with this.  
